# KML Editor

A free and open source online KML/KMZ editor

## What is the goal?

Provide an open and encouraging environment for developers new to React or
JavaScript to work on a real world application.

I find that I learn the best by doing. When I was first learning to program, I
had worked through various tutorials and books that taught me the basic
fundamentals of a programming language. From there, I found it hard to dive
deeper without applying what I had learned so far on a real problem. The hardest
part was always coming up with an idea.

Now that I have a full time job as a developer, I find I have lots of ideas, and
not enough time for all of them. This is why I thought it would be a fun idea to
offer up one of my ideas to help mentor the next iteration of new developers.

My goal is to help and encourage a few developers as they learn React. The goal
of the project is to have a functioning app that fills a need.

## Who is the organizer?

My name is [Chad Fawcett](https://github.com/chadfawcett). Like many developers,
I started off by learning things on my own as I went along. I was extremely
fortunate enough to have met people that helped guide and mentor me as I
progressed. Over the years I did a few semesters working towards a degree in
Computer Science, but found I was thriving more in a working environment. While
formal education is beneficial for some, I don't think it is meant for everyone.
This is why I enjoy organizing workshops and hackathons, and thought a project
like this might benefit some.

## Who are you?

To benefit from this project you will have to be somewhat independent, willing
to spend time learning the tools required to solve a problem. You will
appreciate guidance, but not require constant feedback and help.

## What to expect?

You will get experience working on a real world applications along side like
minded individuals that are also on their journey to learn React. You will be
able to collaborate and provide your own ideas to form a well rounded solution.
This will be a small community that you will be able to consult for guidance,
but you should be able to make some decisions and work for yourself.

Some of the things you can expect to get experience with on this projects are:
* [React](https://github.com/facebook/react)
* [Component Driven Development](https://blog.hichroma.com/component-driven-development-ce1109d56c8e) with [Storybook](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook)
* [Material UI](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui), or similar component library
* [Google Maps](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/)
* [KML and KMZ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keyhole_Markup_Language)

## Okay, what will the App actually do?

A couple Summers ago, I was preparing to go on a several day hike. The trail was
not heavily used so it required a GPS to ensure you stayed on track. The only
available GPS file available at the time had lot's of extra data attached to the
trail path and did not have the proper start and end locations. This resulted in
several kilometer markers being inaccurate for my trip. For this reason, I
wanted to edit the GPS file (kml) in order to better suit it for my trip. After
lots of searching online I could not find a simple app that would allow me to do
this. While an application like Google Earth would allow me to do what I wanted,
I was not interested in downloading and installing a large application like that
for a one time use. This is where the idea for a purely online kml editor came
from.

Rather than jumping straight into the project, I decided to see if anyone else
was looking for the same thing. I created a landing page to start collecting
emails of interested users (https://www.kmleditor.com/). I tend to get a couple
emails per week on average. Since I haven't needed to edit anymore kml files
myself, this project slipped further down my priority list. As the list of
interested users grows, the more I want this app to be created.
